# You are now entering the Hackersphere

```ASCII art of a Gosper glider from Conway's Game of Life
  ┌─┐
  └─┼─┐
┌─┬─┼─┤
└─┴─┴─┘
```

## Executing silly protocol... Initializing fun subroutines... Disencrypting the good time matrix
Welcome to our Gemini capsule! We hope you'll have a nice time

You can also view this capsule on the Web via our live HTTPS mirror:
=> https://hackersphere.space/

## In the Hackersphere, nobody knows that I am cringe
Some of us in the Hackersphere are known to uwu, nyaa~, and sometimes even xD. We are not accepting criticism for these tendencies at this or any future time. We have a capsulewide policy that individuals and plural systems of all genders, sexualities, and marginalized identities shall be respected here. You shall not post bigoted or harmful content here, and you must always stay silly :3 

## but what other capsules are out there? like, what is there to do?
Here's some links to other capsules for newcomers to break into Gemspace:

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/capcom/ A gemlog aggregator linking to lots of other capsules
=> gemini://geminiquickst.art/ An approachable introduction to Gemini for new users
=> gemini://sdf.org/ A famous public access Unix server that's been online for ages
=> gemini://gemini.conman.org/ The first Gemini server ever
=> gemini://mozz.us/ The fifth Gemini server ever
=> gemini://zaibatsu.circumlunar.space/~solderpunk/ Personal subcapsule of solderpunk, who created Gemini
=> gemini://heavysquare.com/ There's some posts on here about Unix and other techy stuff
=> gemini://geddit.glv.one/ An anonymous message board

## I want to know more about the software that runs this capsule
Check out our readme:
=> /README.gmi

## Where can I see people's content on here?
View the subcapsules of our users:
=> /~willowf/home.gmi
=> /~offbeatspecter/yo-is-this-thing-on.gmi
=> /~admiralmoses/index.gmi
=> /~toucan/index.gmi
=> /~clone-brother/index.gmi

## I want my own subcapsule on hackersphere.space!
=> /~willowf/home.gmi There's a link to the admin's contact info here

## I want to read about current events via Gemini!
=> /news/index.gmi Read our news feed here
=> /news/atom.xml Or find our atom.xml here
